[Music]
every day about 10 million people take
commercial flights to get from point A
to point B almost 100,000 planes take
off and land without a hitch but from
time to time very rarely an accident
will happen that seems to spike cases of
AVO phobia all over the world like that
time when a captain was partially pulled
out of the cockpit dangling in the sky
at an altitude of 17,000 feet as it
usually happens nothing was amiss at
first the captain of the County of South
Glamorgan a midsize jet airliner was 42
year old Tim Lancaster with 11050 flight
hours under his belt his copilot was 39
year old Alastair Stuart action s'en who
had 7,500 flight hours the plane seemed
to be perfectly okay and the cabin crew
was professional and friendly no one
expected the dramatic outcome that was
in store for this flight On June 10th
1994 crew members and 81 passengers
boarded the aircraft at 8:20 a.m. the
copilot performed a routine takeoff and
British Airways flight 53 90 left
Birmingham England and headed toward
Malaga Spain after some time while the
plane was still climbing Atchinson
handed the control over to the captain
everything was going smoothly and the
pilots relaxed in their seats releasing
their shoulder harnesses tim lancaster
also loosened his lap belt 13 minutes
later the plane had already climbed to a
height of 17,000 300 feet and was over
Didcot Oxfordshire County just as the
cabin crew was preparing to serve meals
flight attendant Nigel Ogden was
entering the cockpit and there was a
loud bang the passengers were terrified
because they thought there was an
explosion however everything was both
better and worse the real cause of the
chaos was the left windscreen panel of
the cockpit it had separated from the
fuselage of the plane and was blown away
later it was found somewhere in Didcot
meanwhile the cockpit was quickly
filling with condensation due to the
difference of temperatures outside and
inside the cabin but that wasn't the
worst part
decompression that occurred when the
window blew out made the air rush out of
the cabin and as you may remember the
captain had already removed his lap belt
that's why the man was literally ripped
out of his seat and sucked out of the
missing windscreen fortunately his knees
got caught between the seat and the
flight controls his upper body was
outside the window exposed to the
incredibly forceful wind and staggering
cold the captain immediately passed out
due to the lack of oxygen recalling the
accident later one of the passengers
told the press that she noticed a man
who had been hanging out of the window
and two other men and a woman had been
holding on to his legs trying to prevent
him from being sucked out little had the
passenger know that it had been the
captain of the plane it was the
lightning-fast reaction of Nigel Ogden
that saved the captain's life he managed
to grab the captain's belt and caught
hold of a chair to keep them both steady
after that another flight attendant
Simon Rogers darted to the cockpit
strapped himself in the pilot's seat and
tightly grasped Lancaster's legs
it allowed Ogden to take a break and
bandage his hand which was badly cut
when he was trying to pull the captain
back into the cockpit meanwhile the
passengers thought the plane was on fire
and started to panic
the cockpit door was sucked in word and
collided with a control console blocking
some parts of it as a result the plane
began to descend very fast debris
passengers personal belongings and
papers were flying around people were
screaming
luckily copilot Atchinson managed to put
on an oxygen mask inform the passengers
about the accident and asked them to
prepare for an emergency landing but
there was a problem the plane didn't
have enough oxygen for everyone on board
that's why the copilot was in a hurry to
descend to an altitude where the
passengers and crew could breathe
normally as he fulfilled this task he
immediately broadcasted a distress call
however the wind created deafening noise
the cockpit so Atchinson couldn't hear
the reply from the air traffic control
Nigel Ogden who was returning to holding
the captain after he tended to his wound
was getting tired on top of that he was
steadily developing frostbite
that's why Simon Rogers along with the
chief Stewart John Huard replaced
Ogden to allow the man some rest the
worst thing was that the captain's body
had moved a bit further and his head
kept hitting the outside of the plane
but despite their assumption that the
man had already lost his life the crew
was still holding on to his body they
were still clinging to him even when the
plane made the emergency landing at the
airport of Southampton it was 8:55 a.m.
local time just a half an hour after
takeoff the passengers hastily
disembarked with the help of boarding
steps several of them along with the
crew members were taken to the hospital
to be treated for shock but were
released on the same day meanwhile the
emergency staff managed to carefully get
the captain down and rushed him to the
hospital
to everyone's amazement lancaster was
alive he had some bad bruising frostbite
and some fractures in his thumb wrists
and right elbow but otherwise he was
unharmed
naturally the man was in a state of
shock but he managed to return to work
in less than five months and didn't
retire from commercial piloting until
2008 but as you can tell this story
could have finished much more tragically
if the crew hadn't reacted as urgently
as they did in fact Tim Lancaster owed
his life to his crew members fast
thinking for such a scary airplane
malfunction to result in neither
fatalities nor any serious injuries is
quite a feat it's no wonder that some
time later first officer Alastair
Atchinson as well as cabin crew members
Nigel Ogden and Susan Gibbons were
awarded with the Queen's commendation
for valuable service in the air
besides in 1992 Atchinson also received
a Polaris award for his heroism and
impressive skills but why did the
accident happen in the first place
investigators discovered that 27 hours
before the flight when the windscreen
was installed 84 of the bolts used in
the process were too small in diameter
and the rest of the bolts were too short
interestingly the window which was
replaced with the new one had been
installed with the use of incorrect
bolts as well naturally the mist sized
bolts couldn't withstand the difference
in the air pressure between the outside
atmosphere and the cabin but the
accident with British Airways flight 53
90 hasn't been the only accident when a
crew member barely escaped being pulled
out of the plane in May 14th 2018 a
Sichuan Airlines flight was heading from
China to Tibet when the plane reached
the cruising altitude of 32,000 feet the
right windshield suddenly exploded with
a deafening bang and the next thing
captain Leo chuan-shan knew his copilot
was being sucked out of the broken
window luckily the man was wearing his
seat belt which pulled him back into the
cockpit afterward it turned out that the
copilot had only sprained his wrist and
received several scratches but meanwhile
the plane experienced a loss of pressure
and temperature drop the captain
couldn't hear the radio debris was
floating in the air equipment
malfunctioned and the plane was shaking
so badly
that it was hard to read the gauges
oxygen masks dropped and then all of a
sudden the plane was in a freefall for
several seconds but luckily it managed
to stabilize again the captain who was a
former military pilot managed to regain
manual control over the Airbus a319 and
the plane made an emergency landing at
the airport in Chengdu one more crew
member had been injured but other than
that none of the 119 passengers or other
crew members were hurt by the time of
the accident the plane had accumulated
almost 20,000 flight hours since the
chuan Airlines got it in July 2011 the
windshield belonged to the original
aircraft and hadn't caused any problems
before Wow have you ever heard about any
other unusual emergency situations that
happened mid-flow
like let me know down in the comments if
you learned something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
a friend well hey don't go anywhere just
yet we have over two thousand cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life